as we discussed earlier
Recursive function is tail recursive when the recursive
call is the last thing executed by the function
see here the recursive call print n minus minus
is the last thing executed by the function
It doesn't do any operation with the return value that
it gets from the called function
It simply is
Recursive call and there are no further statements to
execute
After that these kind of tail recursive calls will
be optimised by compilers before the execution
It is also known as tail call elimination or tail
call optimisation
Let us see how the compiler will optimise the tailed
recursive call
First the Recursive call arguments will be replaced by
corresponding statements
So this argument minus minus n will be replaced by
n equal to n minus one
The compiler will add the label before the code block
and invoke it using the Goto statement something like this
start and go to start
Now if you see this code will not work like
recursive Function it will work like a simple
looping statement so it will save a lot of memory
That is if the code is executed
as recursive function for n recursive calls It will consume
order of N memory in this stack section
But in the case of optimised looping code it will
only consume order of one that is constant memory
This is why Tail Recursion is considered as most
efficient among all other recursive calls
In the next video let us take the factorial
recursive call and analyse how it can be optimised with
tail Recursion.